
(Last updated: 02/11/00)

The INTERPF v3 program is a f90 source code that handles only the
standard front-end tasks on a single domain for model input
generation.  The code has been modified by NOAA/FSL, AFWA and
by NCAR.  The direct access files have been replaced by 
dynamically allocated memory, which implies that INTERPF uses 
significantly more memory than previous versions.  Because the
INTERPF program dynamically allocates the required memory, there
is no need to re-compile the code for different sized 
horizontal configurations, input vertical levels or output
vertical levels.

The MM5 v3 code expects three types of input files: initial
condition of the meteorological fields, lateral boundary conditions
of the meteorological fields and the lower boundary condition
(the reservoir temperature [a daily mean], snow cover, seaice
fractional seaice, and time-averaged SST).  
These files are named MMINPUT_DOMAINx, BDYOUT_DOMAINx and LOWBDY_DOMAINx, 
where "x" is the grid identifier bhi(13,1).  The INTERPF code must be 
run multiple times to generate more than a single domain of
input for the model.

The files from the INTERPF program are all in the v3 format,
including the BDYOUT_DOMAINx file.  The MMINPUT_DOMAINx file
does not have coupled output, but for convenience inside the model,
the BDYOUT_DOMAINx file is coupled with p* (kPa).  The boundary
file no longer has p* or p* tendencies in the data set.

There is no hydrostatic option in INTERPF, consistent with removing 
this capability from the model in the v3 release.  The user may have
the output for the initial condition MMINPUT_DOMAINx contain only
a specified number of time slices to permit analysis nudging in the
model.  An option for diagnosing mixing ratio with respect to water
only or water and ice is available.  The choice of using surface
data in the vertical interpolation is now located in the namelist.
Users may also spread the surface data through several sigma layers
in the vertical interpolation.  

All of the date computations are y2k compliant.  The date information
input to the program through the namelist is split into multiple
integers (year, month, day, hour).  The only input file other than
the namelist is the first-guess file that is specified in the 
namelist.

The code is built with a 2-level Makefile.  In the top directory,
the user types
# make 

Note, compiling INTERPF requires Fortran 90 compiler of version 2.0 
or higher on a Sun.

The file "namelist.input" must be in the working directory.  If the 
vendor does not support comments in the namelist (part of the f95
standard), then the user needs to remove them (just delete everything
after the "!" character on each line) from the namelist.input file.

Output files are named: MMINPUT_DOMAINx, LOWBDY_DOMAINx,
and BDYOUT_DOMAINx.
